[RF-DOCS] Asset Pipeline Documentation (Propshaft) [ci-skip] (#53875)
rails/rails: guides/source/asset_pipeline.md

The Asset Pipeline
==================

This guide explains how to handle essential asset management tasks.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What is an asset pipeline.
* The main features of Propshaft, and how to set it up.
* How to migrate from Sprockets to Propshaft.
* How to use other libraries for more advanced asset management.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is an Asset Pipeline?
---------------------------

The Rails Asset Pipeline is a library designed for organizing, caching, and
serving static assets, such as JavaScript, CSS, and image files. It streamlines
and optimizes the management of these assets to enhance the performance and
maintainability of the application.

The Rails Asset Pipeline is managed by

> [**Propshaft**](https://github.com/rails/propshaft) in Rails 8. Propshaft is

Author: Thanks for catching this!

built for an era where transpilation, bundling and compression are less critical

> for basic applications, thanks to better browser support and faster networks and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for basic applications, thanks to better browser support, faster networks and
```

    you can combine them into a single file. For example, you could create a
    `combined.js` file that imports or copies code from other scripts. Then,
    just include `combined.js` in your layout to avoid dealing with individual
    file ordering. This can be useful for files that always load together, like
    a set of utility functions or a group of styles for a specific component.
    While this approach can work for small projects or simple use cases, it can
    become tedious and error-prone for larger applications.

4. Bundle your JavaScript or CSS using a bundler

    If your project requires features like dependency chaining or CSS
    pre-processing, you may want to consider [advanced asset
    management](#advanced-asset-management) alongside Propshaft.

    Tools like [`js-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails)
    integrates [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/),
    [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), or [Vite](https://vite.dev/) into
    your Rails application, while
    [`css-bundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails) can be
    used to process stylesheets that use [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) or

>     [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/).

Author: ✅

    These tools complement Propshaft by handling the complex processing, while
    Propshaft efficiently organizes and serves the final assets.

### Asset Organization

Propshaft organizes assets within the `app/assets` directory, which includes
subdirectories like `images`, `javascripts`, and `stylesheets`. You can place
your JavaScript, CSS, image files, and other assets into these directories, and
Propshaft will manage them during the precompilation process.

> You can also add additional asset paths for Propshaft to search by modifying

Author: ✅

`config.assets.paths` in your `config/initializers/assets.rb` file. For example:

```ruby
# Add additional assets to the asset load path.
Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Emoji.images_path
```

Propshaft will make all assets from the configured paths available for serving.
During the precompilation process, Propshaft copies these assets into the
`public/assets` directory, ensuring they are ready for production use.

Assets can be [referenced through their logical
paths](#digested-assets-in-views) using helpers like `asset_path`, `image_tag`,
`javascript_include_tag`, and other asset helper tags. After running
[assets:precompile in production](#production), these logical references are
automatically converted into their fingerprinted paths using the
[`.manifest.json` file](#manifest-files).

Its possible to exclude certain directories from this process, you can read more
about it in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting-versioning-with-digest-based-urls).

### Fingerprinting: Versioning with digest-based URLs

In Rails, asset versioning helps manage cache behavior by adding unique

> identifiers to asset filenames. It does this by using fingerprinting.

Author: I went with "In Rails, asset versioning uses fingerprinting to add unique identifiers to asset filenames, therefore ensuring cache management."

Fingerprinting is a technique that makes the name of a file dependent on its
content. A digest of the file's content is generated and appended to the
filename. This ensures that when the file content changes, its digest—and
consequently its filename—also changes. This mechanism is crucial for caching
assets effectively, as the browser will always load the updated version of an
asset when its content changes, thereby improving performance. For static or
infrequently changed content, this provides an easy way to tell whether two
versions of a file are identical, even across different servers or deployment
dates.

#### Asset Digesting

As mentioned in the [Asset Organization section](#asset-organization), in
Propshaft, all assets from the paths configured in `config.assets.paths` are
available for serving and will be copied into the `public/assets` directory.

> When fingerprinted, a asset filename  like `styles.css` is renamed to

Author: ✅

exists at `public/assets/rails.png`, it will be served by the web server.

Alternatively, if you are using fingerprinted assets (e.g.,
`rails-f90d8a84c707a8dc923fca1ca1895ae8ed0a09237f6992015fef1e11be77c023.png`),
Propshaft will also serve these correctly. The fingerprint is automatically
applied during the precompilation process.

Images can be organized into subdirectories, and you can reference them by
specifying the directory in the tag:

```erb
<%= image_tag "icons/rails.png" %>
```

Finally, you can reference an image in your CSS like:

```css
background: url("/bg/pattern.svg");
```

Propshaft will automatically convert this to:

```css
background: url("/assets/bg/pattern-2169cbef.svg");
```

WARNING: If you're precompiling your assets (see [the Production
section](#production)), linking to an asset that doesn't exist will raise an
exception in the calling page. This includes linking to a blank string. Be
careful when using `image_tag` and other helpers with user-supplied data. This
ensures that the browser always fetches the correct version of the asset.

#### Digested Assets in JavaScript

In JavaScript, you need to manually trigger the asset transformation using the

> `RAILS_ASSET_URL` pseudo-method. Here’s an example:

Author: ✅

assets referenced in the import map are appropriately handled and mapped to
their digested paths during the precompilation process.

#### Bypassing the Digest Step

If you need to reference files that refer to each other—like a JavaScript file
and its source map—and want to avoid the digesting process, you can pre-digest
these files manually. Propshaft recognizes files with the pattern
`-[digest].digested.js` as files that have already been digested and will
preserve their stable file names.

#### Excluding Directories from Digestion

You can exclude certain directories from the precompilation and digestion
process by adding them to `config.assets.excluded_paths`. This is useful if, for
example, you’re using `app/assets/stylesheets` as input to a compiler like [Dart
Sass](https://sass-lang.com/), and you don’t want these files to be part of the
asset load path.

```ruby
config.assets.excluded_paths = [Rails.root.join("app/assets/stylesheets")]
```

This will prevent the specified directories from being processed by Propshaft
while still allowing them to be part of the precompilation process.

Working with Propshaft
----------------------

> From Rails 8.0, Propshaft is the default asset pipeline, so you don’t need to
> install it separately. When you create a new Rails 8 application, Propshaft is
> included by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Propshaft is included by default in new Rails applications.
```

The guide is versioned so specifying that it is included from Rails 8 looks redundant.

To use Propshaft, you need to configure it properly and organize your assets in
a way that Rails can serve them efficiently.

### Setup

Follow these steps for setup Propshaft in your Rails application:

> 1. Create a new Rails 8 application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Rails application:
```

Author: ✅

    ```bash
    $ rails new app_name
    ```

>     This command generates a new Rails application with Propshaft included by
>     default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

2. Organize your assets:

    Propshaft expects your assets to be in the `app/assets` directory. You can
    organize your assets into subdirectories like `app/assets/javascripts` for
    JavaScript files, `app/assets/stylesheets` for CSS files, and
    `app/assets/images` for images.

    For example, you can create a new JavaScript file in
    `app/assets/javascripts`:

    ```javascript
    // app/assets/javascripts/main.js
    console.log("Hello, world!");
    ```

    and a new CSS file in `app/assets/stylesheets`:

    ```css
    /* app/assets/stylesheets/main.css */
    body {
      background-color: red;
    }
    ```

> 3. Link Assets in Your Application Layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Link assets in your application layout:
```

Author: ✅

    In your application layout file (usually
    `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`), you can include your assets using
    the `stylesheet_link_tag` and `javascript_include_tag` helpers:

    ```erb
    <!-- app/views/layouts/application.html.erb -->
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>MyApp</title>
        <%= stylesheet_link_tag "main" %>
      </head>
      <body>
        <%= yield %>
        <%= javascript_include_tag "main" %>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    This layout includes the `main.css` stylesheet and `main.js` JavaScript file
    in your application.

> 4. Start your Rails server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start the Rails server:
```

    ```bash
    $ bin/rails server
    ```

>     This command starts your Rails server so you can view your application in a
>     web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is redundant with the title just above, and the text just below

5. Preview your application:

    Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`. You should
    see your Rails application with the included assets.

### Development

> In development, Rails and Propshaft are configured for flexibility, allowing
> rapid iteration without manual intervention. This setup makes it easier to
> manage assets as they change frequently during development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails and Propshaft are configured differently in development than in production,
to allow rapid iteration without manual intervention.
```

> #### No Caching in Development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### No Caching
```

> In development, Rails is configured to bypass asset caching. This means that
> when you modify assets (e.g., CSS, JavaScript), Rails will serve the most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In development, Rails is configured to bypass asset caching.
When you modify assets (e.g., CSS, JavaScript), Rails will serve the most
```

up-to-date version directly from the file system. There's no need to worry about
versioning or file renaming because caching is skipped entirely. Browsers will
automatically pull in the latest version each time you reload the page.

#### Automatic Reloading of Assets

> If you're using Propshaft on its own, it automatically checks for updates to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Propshaft on its own, it automatically checks for updates to
```

assets like JavaScript, CSS, or images with every request. This means you can
edit these files, reload the browser, and instantly see the changes without
needing to restart the Rails server.

> When using modern JavaScript bundlers such as
> [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) or [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using JavaScript bundlers
```

"modern" is subjective (Is Webpack considered modern by everyone? For how long would it still be the case?). It does not seem required to get the point across.

setting in `config/environments/development.rb`:

```ruby
config.file_watcher = ActiveSupport::EventedFileUpdateChecker
```

This will reduce the overhead of checking for file updates and improve
performance during development.

### Production

In production, Rails serves assets with caching enabled to optimize performance,
ensuring that your application can handle high traffic efficiently.

#### Asset Caching and Versioning in Production

As mentioned in the [Fingerprinting
section](#fingerprinting-versioning-with-digest-based-urls) when the file
content changes, its digest also changes, thus the browser uses the updated
version of the file. Whereas, if the content remains the same, the browser will
use the cached version.

#### Precompiling Assets

In production, precompilation is typically run during deployment to ensure that
the latest versions of the assets are served. Propshaft was explicitly not
designed to provide full transpiler capabilities. However, it does offer an
input -> output compiler setup that by default is used to translate `url(asset)`
function calls in CSS to `url(digested-asset)` instead and source mapping
comments likewise.

> To manually run precompilation you can use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets can be manually precompiled using:
```

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production rails assets:precompile
```

> After doing this, all assets in the load path will be copied (or compiled when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All assets in the load path will be copied (or compiled when
```

using [advanced asset management](#advanced-asset-management)) in the
precompilation step and stamped with a digest hash.

> Additionally, you can set ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY"] to trigger the use of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can set `ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY"]` to trigger the use of a
```

> randomly generated secret_key_base that’s stored in a temporary file. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
randomly generated `secret_key_base` that’s stored in a temporary file. This is
```

useful when precompiling assets for production as part of a build step that
otherwise does not need access to the production secrets.

```bash
$ RAILS_ENV=production SECRET_KEY_BASE_DUMMY=1 rails assets:precompile
```

By default, assets are served from the `/assets` directory.

> WARNING: Do not run the precompile command in development mode. Running it in

Reviewer 2: I think precompiling in development can be useful for debugging. My suggestion would be to soften the warning.

```suggestion
WARNING: Running the precompile command in
```

Reviewer: Out of scope for this guide, but it may also be valuable for Rails to print a warning with these explanations when running `assets:precompile` in unexpected environments.

development generates a marker file named `.manifest.json`, which tells the
application that it can serve the compiled assets. As a result, any changes you
make to your source assets won't be reflected in the browser until the
precompiled assets are updated. If your assets stop updating in development
mode, the solution is to remove the `.manifest.json` file located in

> `public/assets/`. This will force Rails to recompile the assets on the fly,

Reviewer 2: I often run the `rails assets:clobber` task to get back to a live reloading state after precompiling instead of manually searching for `.manifest.json`. I added this as a suggestion:

```suggestion
`public/assets/`.  You can use the `rails assets:clobber` command to delete all your precompiled assets and the `.manifest.json` file. This will force Rails to recompile the assets on the fly,
```

Author: Love this, thank you!

<%= asset_path('smile.png') %>
```

Will be rendered as full CDN URLs like
`http://mycdnsubdomain.fictional-cdn.com/assets/smile.png` (digest omitted for
readability).

> If the CDN has a copy of `smile.png`, it will serve it to the browser, and your
> server doesn't even know it was requested. If the CDN does not have a copy, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the CDN has a copy of `smile.png`, it will serve it to the browser, and the origin
server won't even know it was requested. If the CDN does not have a copy, it
```

don't have to ever manually invalidate any items in your cache. By using a
different unique asset name instead, your users get the latest asset.

Sprockets to Propshaft
-------------------------------------

### Evolution of Asset Management Techniques

Within the last few years, the evolution of the web has led to significant
changes that have influenced how assets are managed in web applications. These
include:

1. **Browser Support**: Modern browsers have improved support for new features
   and syntax, reducing the need for transpilation and polyfills.
2. **HTTP/2**: The introduction of HTTP/2 has made it easier to serve multiple
   files in parallel, reducing the need for bundling.
3. **ES6+**: Modern JavaScript syntax (ES6+) is supported by most modern

>    browsers, reducing the need for transpilation and minification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   browsers, reducing the need for transpilation.
```

As noted further below, I didn't understand why the use of ES6 would reduce the need for minification. I thought minification became less necessary simply because the response is gzipped over the network (which is something done by `Rack::Deflater` unless I also misunderstood that part) and because nowadays there are even more efficient compression algorithms such as brotli.

Author: @sedubois you are correct, I miswrote here and they are unrelated. I've updated it accordingly.  Thank you for letting me know!

> Therefore, in Rails 8, the asset pipeline powered by Propshaft, no longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, the asset pipeline powered by Propshaft no longer
```

For example, converting TypeScript to JavaScript.

```typescript
const greet = (name: string): void => {
  console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
};
```

After transpilation, this code becomes:

```javascript
const greet = (name) => {
  console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
};
```

In the past, pre-processors like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and
[Less](https://lesscss.org/) were essential for CSS features such as variables
and nesting. Today, modern CSS supports these natively, reducing the need for
transpilation.

#### Bundling ❌

Bundling combines multiple files into one to reduce the number of HTTP requests
a browser needs to make to render a page.

For example, if your application has three JavaScript files:

- menu.js
- cart.js
- checkout.js

Bundling will merge these into a single application.js file.

```javascript
// app/javascript/application.js
// Contents of menu.js, cart.js, and checkout.js are combined here
```

This was crucial with HTTP/1.1, which limited 6-8 simultaneous connections per
domain. With HTTP/2, browsers fetch multiple files in parallel, making bundling
less critical for modern applications.

> #### Compression ❌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Minification ❌
```

Author: I adjusted this section and decided to keep the heading as "Compression" since the content now focuses solely on compression.

Compression encodes files in a more efficient format to reduce their size
further when delivered to users. A common technique is [Gzip
compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip).

For example, a CSS file that's 200KB may compress to just 50KB when Gzipped.
Browsers automatically decompress such files upon receipt, saving bandwidth and
improving speed.

Minification is a form of compression that removes unnecessary characters (like
whitespace, comments, and newlines).

Before minification:

```javascript
function add(number1, number2) {
    // Adds two numbers
    var sum = number1 + number2;
    return sum;
}
```

After minification:

```javascript
function add(a,b){return a+b;}
```

Modern ES6+ syntax is supported by modern browsers, thus reducing the reliance

> on minification.

Reviewer: Not sure I understood this sentence. Why does ES6+ browser support remove the need for minification? I thought minification was used purely to reduce the size of the file over the network (performance).

Author: I miswrote it here and updated it to relate to compression. Thank you for bringing it up.

### Sprockets vs. Propshaft

#### Load Order

In Sprockets, you could link files together to ensure they loaded in the correct
order. For example, a main JavaScript file that depended on other files would
automatically have its dependencies managed by Sprockets, ensuring everything
loaded in the right sequence. Propshaft, on the other hand, does not
automatically handle these dependencies, and instead [lets you manage the asset
load order manually](#asset-load-order).

#### Versioning

> Sprockets simplifies asset fingerprinting by appending a hash to filenames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sprockets simplified asset fingerprinting by appending a hash to filenames
```

Author: "simplifies" seems like the correct tense. Even though Sprockets is no longer the default, it still simplifies asset fingerprinting in that way.

requiring explicit bundling. Read more about [asset
digesting](#asset-digesting).

### Migration Steps

Propshaft is intentionally simpler than
[Sprockets](https://github.com/rails/sprockets-rails), which may make migrating
from Sprockets a fair amount of work. This is especially true if you rely on
Sprockets for tasks like transpiling
[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) or [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/),
or if you're using gems that provide this functionality. In such cases, you'll
either need to stop transpiling or switch to a Node.js-based transpiler, such as
those provided by
[`jsbundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) or
[`cssbundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails). Read more
about these in the [Advanced Asset Management
section](#advanced-asset-management).

However, if you're already using a Node-based setup to bundle JavaScript and
CSS, Propshaft should integrate smoothly into your workflow. Since you won’t
need an additional tool for bundling or transpiling, Propshaft will primarily
handle asset digesting and serving.

Some key steps in the migration include:

> 1. Remove several sprocket gems using the `bundle remove <gem name>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove some gems using the following:
```

    bundle remove sprockets-rails
    bundle remove sass-rails
    ```

2. Delete the `config/assets.rb` and `assets/config/manifest.js` files from your
   project.

3. If you've already upgraded to Rails 8, then Propshaft is already included in
   your application. Otherwise, install it using `bundle add propshaft`.

4. Remove the `config.assets.paths << Rails.root.join('app', 'assets')` line
   from your `application.rb` file.

5. Migrate asset helpers by replacing all instances of asset helpers (e.g.,
   `image_url`) with standard URLs because Propshaft utilizes relative paths.
   For example, `image_url("logo.png")` will become `url("/logo.png")`.

6. If you're relying on Sprockets for transpiling, you'll need to switch to a
   Node-based transpiler like Webpack, esbuild, or Vite. You can use the
   `jsbundling-rails` and `cssbundling-rails` gems to integrate these tools into
   your Rails application.

For more information, you can read the [detailed guide on how to migrate from
Sprockets to
Propshaft](https://github.com/rails/propshaft/blob/main/UPGRADING.md).

## Advanced Asset Management

Over the years, there have been multiple default approaches for handling assets.

> As the web evolved, we began to see more JavaScript-heavy applications. In The
> Rails Doctrine we believe that [The Menu Is
> Omakase](https://rubyonrails.org/doctrine#omakase) so we focused on the default
> setup within Propshaft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the web evolved, we began to see more JavaScript-heavy applications.
The Rails Doctrine posits that [The Menu Is
Omakase](https://rubyonrails.org/doctrine#omakase), so Propshaft focuses
on delivering a production-ready setup with modern browsers by default.
```

Author: @sedubois Thanks for your suggestion! We aim to use simple language in the guides, so "posits" feels a bit outside that scope. That said, I really liked the latter part of your suggestion and have incorporated it—appreciate the input!

  or React JSX—benefit greatly from `jsbundling-rails`. These tools rely on a
  build step, which the gem seamlessly supports.

By integrating with Rails tools like `Propshaft` and simplifying JavaScript
workflows, `jsbundling-rails` allows you to build rich, dynamic front-ends while
staying productive and adhering to Rails conventions.

### `cssbundling-rails`

[`cssbundling-rails`](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails) integrates
modern CSS frameworks and tools into your Rails application. It allows you to
bundle and process your stylesheets. Once processed, the resulting CSS is
delivered via the Rails asset pipeline.

#### How `cssbundling-rails` Works

1. After installation, it sets up your Rails app to use your chosen CSS
   framework or processor.
2. It creates a `build:css` script in your `package.json` file to compile your
   stylesheets.
3. During development, a `build:css --watch` task ensures live updates to your
   CSS as you make changes, providing a smooth and responsive workflow.
4. In production, the gem ensures your stylesheets are compiled and ready for
   deployment. During the `assets:precompile` step, it installs all

>    `package.json` dependencies via `yarn` and runs the `yarn build:css` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `package.json` dependencies via `yarn` or `bun` and runs the `yarn build:css`
   or `bun build:css` command
```

To my understanding, `bun` [can also be used](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails/blob/123569431c0e303c1aca8b275b2d1bc3c68a3a63/lib/install/helpers.rb#L5), even if this is not mentioned in the cssbundling-rails [README](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails).
